[GitHub] Documentation for GitHub connector (#1119)
elastic/connectors-python: docs/reference/github.md

# GitHub Connector

The [Elastic GitHub connector](../connectors/sources/github.py) is provided in the Elastic connectors python framework and can be used via [build a connector](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/build-connector.html).

## Availability and prerequisites

This connector is available as a **connector client** from the **Python connectors framework**. To use this connector, satisfy all [connector client requirements](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/build-connector.html).

This connector is in **beta** and is subject to change. The design and code is less mature than official GA features and is being provided as-is with no warranties. Beta features are not subject to the support SLA of official GA features.

## Usage

To use this connector as a **connector client**, use the **GitHub** tile from the connectors list or **Customized connector** workflow.

For additional operations, see [Usage](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-usage.html).

> ## Get a GitHub Token

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## GitHub  access token
```

> In order to authenticate via the GitHub, the user needs to configure GitHub Token to fetch the data from GitHub. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure a GitHub  access token to fetch data from GitHub. 
```

> To generate GitHub Token, user needs to follow below steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow these steps to generate a GitHub  access token:
```

 - Go to GitHub Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens → Tokens(classic).
 - Click `Generate new token`.
 - Add a note and select the "repo" scope.
 - Click `Generate token` and copy the token.

## Configuration

### Configure GitHub connector

> The following configuration fields need to be provided for setting up the connector:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following configuration fields are required:
```

#### `github_token`

> The GitHub Token to authenticate the GitHub instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GitHub  access token to authenticate the GitHub instance.
```

#### `repositories`

Comma-separated list of repositories to fetch data from GitHub instance. If the value is `*` the connector will fetch data from all repositories present in the configured user's account. Default value is `*`. Examples:

- `Repository1, Repository2`
- `*`

#### `retry_count`

The number of retry attempts after failed request to GitHub. Default value is `3`.

### Content Extraction

> The connector uses the Elastic ingest attachment processor plugin for extracting file contents. The ingest attachment processor extracts files by using the Apache text extraction library Tika. Supported file types eligible for extraction can be found as `TIKA_SUPPORTED_FILETYPES` in [utils.py](../connectors/utils.py) file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [Content extraction](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/connectors-content-extraction.html).```

## Documents and Sync

The connector syncs the following objects and entities:
- **Repositories**
- **Pull Requests**
- **Issues**
- **Files & Folder**

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*NOTE*:
- Files bigger than 10 MB won't be extracted
- Permissions are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to **all users with access** to that Elastic Deployment

```

## Sync rules

> - Files bigger than 10 MB won't be extracted
> - Permissions are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to **all users with access** to that Elastic Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Basic sync rules](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/sync-rules.html#sync-rules-basic) are identical for all connectors and are available by default.

Advanced sync rules are not available for this connector in the present version. Currently filtering is controlled by ingest pipelines.
```

To use this connector as a **connector client**, use the **GitHub** tile from the connectors list or **Customized connector** workflow.

For additional operations, see [Usage](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/master/connectors-usage.html).

## GitHub  access token

Configure a GitHub  access token to fetch data from GitHub. 

Follow these steps to generate a GitHub  access token:
 - Go to GitHub Settings → Developer settings → Personal access tokens → Tokens(classic).
 - Click `Generate new token`.
 - Add a note and select the "repo" scope.
 - Click `Generate token` and copy the token.

## Configuration

### Configure GitHub connector

The following configuration fields are required:

#### `github_token`

GitHub  access token to authenticate the GitHub instance.

#### `repositories`

Comma-separated list of repositories to fetch data from GitHub instance. If the value is `*` the connector will fetch data from all repositories present in the configured user's account. Default value is `*`. Examples:

- `Repository1, Repository2`
- `*`

#### `retry_count`

The number of retry attempts after failed request to GitHub. Default value is `3`.

### Content Extraction

> See [Content extraction](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/connectors-content-extraction.html).

Reviewer 2: This needs more nuance, right? Since we're only fetching markdown and restructured-text files?

Reviewer 2: It's fine if you'd rather capture that in a follow-up, as this was a recent change.

Reviewer 2: ah, that's going into 8.10, and this is going into 8.9. Ignore me

## Documents and Sync

The connector syncs the following objects and entities:
- **Repositories**
- **Pull Requests**
- **Issues**
- **Files & Folder**
*NOTE*:
- Files bigger than 10 MB won't be extracted
- Permissions are not synced. **All documents** indexed to an Elastic deployment will be visible to **all users with access** to that Elastic Deployment

## Sync rules

[Basic sync rules](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/enterprise-search/current/sync-rules.html#sync-rules-basic) are identical for all connectors and are available by default.

> Advanced sync rules are not available for this connector in the present version. Currently filtering is controlled by ingest pipelines.

Reviewer 2: I think advanced rules for Github were merged. https://github.com/elastic/connectors-python/pull/1324

Reviewer 2: that's going into 8.10, and this is going into 8.9. Ignore me
